# APRA Data Science Courses

This project contains the source files and processes for creating the fictitious data for APRA’s fundraising data science online learning courses and workshops. This project was initiated by APRA's Data Science Committee and a subcommittee with the following members developed the approach to developing the data files: 

- Mirabai Auer, University of Chicago
- Barron Cato, University of Washington
- Kate Chamberlin, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center  
- Michael Pawlus, The Ohio State University
- Rich Majerus, Queens University of Charlotte

The original guiding shared google document for this project is available [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14Q5OgUMnprLiF6E7baLXWvLBTaRbXt077KvrXZ_w33Q/edit). 

The data sets created in this project will be used across a series of online learning programs and courses for APRA for continuity and to enable projects to be cumulative.  

## Files 

### Ficititious Fundraising Data Files

The result of this project is three fundraising data files:

1. `bio_data_table.csv` - contains hypothetical biographical data about donors. Each row represents a unique donor. 
2. `giving_data_table.csv` - contains hypothetical gifts made by donors and attributes of the gifts. Each row represents a gift. 
3. `engagement_data_table.csv` - contains hypothetical information on donors interactions and engagements with a fictitious non-profit organization. 

The three above data files are generated by the `generate_data.R` script. To facilitate the use of this script an R project file is also included (`apra_data_science_courses.Rproj`).

There are two introductory files that may be helpful in learning more about these sample data sets:

1. `data_dictionary.html` which is produced by `data_dictionary.Rmd` and contains detailed information on the variables included in each data set. 
2. `example_exercises.html` which is produced by `example_exercises.Rmd` and contains a few basic examples of using the sample data sets to conduct analytics in R. 

Lastly, there are two supplemental data files that are used in the creation of the fictitious fundraising data: 

1. `free-zipcode-database-primary.csv` - contains information on US zipcodes include the lat/lon pairs of each zipcode's centroid. 
2. `country_population.csv` - contains population and land area data on countries. 




- The same data set will be used across all courses for continuity and to enable projects to span multiple courses. 
Some courses may only use a subset of the available tables. 
Each data table will be available as a .csv, Excel, and a table in a database. 
There will be three data tables: bio, giving, and prospect/engagement
